KGB was the umbrella organization name for the Soviet Union's premier security, secret police, and intelligence agency from 1954 to 1991.
The KGB's operational domain encompassed functions and powers like those exercised by the Central Intelligence Agency in the United States.
The ideological mission of the KGB comes from a concept originally developed by the Cheka, a former Soviet State Security organization.
This concept of the "sword and shield" defined the KGB’s duties:
"the shield to defend the revolution, the sword to smite its foes."
The responsibilities of this clandestine organization were external espionage, counter- espionage, and the liquidation of anti-Soviet and counter-revolutionary organizations within the Soviet Union and abroad.
The KGB also guarded the national borders, Communist Party leaders, and critical state property.
To carry out these responsibilities, the KGB developed methods of collecting intelligence that paralleled the SIS (also known as MI6) of Great Britain.
However, unlike the SIS, the KGB lacked sophisticated intelligence analysis capabilities, significantly hampering its ability to profit from the voluminous intelligence it collected.
In particular, it struggled to match the SIS’s use of signals intelligence,
a technology that gave the SIS an advantage over the KGB until the Cold War.
Unable to match the technology used by the SIS, the KGB mostly relied on human intelligence, particularly from illegal residents.
Later, during the Cold War, increased security in other countries frustrated KGB attempts to maintain its human intelligence network and, as a result, electronic espionage gained a higher priority.
The advances made in electronic espionage during this time produced a sizable financial windfall after the Cold War, when the KGB commercialized its advanced technologies for business applications. 
The KGB used the intelligence it gathered to pursue a number of agendas, such as the suppression of unorthodox beliefs and the persecution of Soviet dissidents.
Indeed, this obsession with "ideological subversion" increased throughout the Cold War,
reaching an apex with the appointment of Yuri Andropov as the chairman of the KGB in 1967.
Although Andropov declared that every instance of dissent was a threat to the Soviet state that must be challenged,
Nikita Khrushchev disagreed with Andropov’s Stalinist-era tactics.
When Khrushchev became Premier of the Soviet Union, the tight controls over subversive beliefs and anti-Communist opinions were partially relaxed.
This relaxation of KGB policy resulted in the reemergence of critical literary works,
most notably the publication of One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich in 1962 by Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn.
Following Khrushchev’s fall from power, the Soviet state and the KGB quickly returned to eliminating all forms of dissent and strict controls on expression remained until 1991.
In August of 1991, Colonel-General Vladimir Kryuchkov used the KGB's resources in aid of a coup attempt to overthrow Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev.
Kryuchkov had become dismayed with Gorbachev’s efforts to open up Soviet society.
However, the KGB had become too weak to make the coup successful and the takeover attempt collapsed,
resulting in the arrest of Colonel-General Kryuchkov and the appointment of a new leader.
As a result of this threat, President Gorbachev appointed a new Chairman, General Vadim Bakatin, and immediately ordered him to dissolve the KGB of the Soviet Union.
On November 6, 1991, the KGB officially ceased to exist and its services were divided into two separate organizations.
The SVR is now in charge of foreign intelligence gathering and the FSB provides internal security, but functions much like the Soviet KGB.