'3020', '1', 'C:\Users\Fazio Lab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/18/2019', '15:45:53'
The KGB was russia's form of secret intelligence that did work on espionage, finding anti-communists and traitors within the country. It is similar to the central intelligent agency in the U.S. 

It was during the cold war and the KGB didn't have as good technology as the SIS of Great Britain, which was a large disadvantage for them. They developed their own intelligence system and were able to make money off of it in businesses. 

The KGB was big on the "subversive ideology" and Krushchev wanted it to be expressed but Andrew Zhe... didn't agree with the ideology. Then the new Premier of the Soviet Union was Kruchevo and he loosened the regulations on anti-communism and non-submersiveness. This angered the KGB and after he fell to power the rules were reinstated and regulated. 

Then Gorbachev rose to power and hired a General to dismantle the KGB. A colonel in the KGB tried to overthrow Gorbachev and form a coup but was unsuccessful. In 1967, the KGB was dismantled into 2 agencies. One of intelligence and 


'3014', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/18/2019', '12:56:38'
SGR was the Soviet's equivalent to the US's CIA. SGR was able to have an advantage over the other group it had dissent with because of the other group's inability to match the SGR's practices. 



'3013', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/18/2019', '12:39:39'
The Soviet Union formed the KGB in 1957. The KGB was based on Great Britain's SIS (MI6). The KGB provided security for the communist leaders and specialized in espionage. The KGB could not keep up with advancements in signals espionage, so they specialized in human espionage receiving tips mainly from illegal citizens. The KGB persecuted anyone not supportive of the communist cause and limited any reading/ene. The KGB made major advancements in electronic espionage and capitalized on this making a significant profit after the Cold War by selling this technology to industries. The KGB was dissolved in 1991 after a foiled attempt to overthrown Mikhail Gorbachev. It was replaced with a new system focused on national leader/border security rather than anti-communist persecution. 


'3016', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/18/2019', '15:53:52'
The KGB was active for 47 years starting in the 1950's. Initially, they resembeled the CIA. They did not have the same signal data collection abilities so they relied on illegal immigrants to give give them information as well as espionage. They lived by the sword and shield moto where the shield was to protect the ideology and the sword was to smite those who stood in the way. They could not keep up with M16's intelligence agency. When internet intelligence became important, the KGB took advantage of this. They were able to collect and sell information to help them rival the CIA and M16 organizations. In the 1990s a leader of the Soviet Union dissolved the KGB. Books were written about the KGB and criticised by the public. One of them was titled "A day in the life of __________" The KGB existed to aid the Soviet Union during the height of the Cold War. It was active from 1954 to 1991. Something happened in August of 1991 to lead  



'3002', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/16/2019', '08:44:12'
KGB was a security organization in the Soviet Union similar to the CIA in the United States of the SIS in Great Britain
KGB wasn't strong enough to have the techniques of the SIS so it often struggled
Electronic espionage became an important tool for the KGB when they got frustrated that they couldn't be as advanced as other nations
When a new President of the Soviet Union was elected, he significantly reduced the powers of the KGB because he thought they were too similar to Stalin in considering nearly everything to be dissent
During this time, the Soviet Union saw the emergence of books that previously would have been banned
However, once this president ended his rule, the KGB immediately regained its power and strength over the nation
When a colonel wanted a coup against the new president, he elicited the help of the KGB
The KGB had lost some power and strength, so the coup was unsuccessful and the colonel lost his 


'3004', '1', 'Z:\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/16/2019', '14:43:25'
The KGB was the primary central intelligence force in the Soviet Union from 1954 to 1991. It was comparable to SIS (aka MI6). In its infancy, it was able to use advanced data collection techniques that allowed it to amass a large amount of information. However, unlike SIS, the KGB lacked the intelligence capabilities to properly analyze this wealth of information. As a result, it focused primarily on human intelligence until the Cold War. The KGB performed espionage, counter-espionage, and ideological subversion in both the Soviet Union and other countries. Additionally, it also provided protective security forces for border control, as well as the communist party and central government. The emblem of the KGB is the 'sword and shield'. The sword refers to KGB's desire to smite its foes and the shield refers to its mission to protect the revolution. As security in other countries expanded, the KGB could no longer rely on human intelligence networks, forcing it to ramp up its espionage t


'3010', '1', 'Z:\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/17/2019', '15:43:58'
This passge is about the KGB. They were essentially the CIA of the Soviet Union. They were super big in the Cold War. They worked to collect internal and external information. They did not like dissenters and were mean to them. They rivaled SIS / M16 in England, but M16 was better at applying / using the information that they gathered. The KGB used a lot of human intelligence from illegal immigrants, but when countries started getting stricter on immigration the KGB switched to electronic intelligence. They then sold this to help businesses. There were a bunch of guys with really long names. One of them who became president was much more lax about dissent and let some other guy publish a book about a guy named Ivan. Then he died and things unrelaxed again. Later, the KGB didn't like the president in 1991 and tried to do a coup but they failed and then the KGB got in trouble and was dissolved and split into two separate organizations. One still does internal info like the old KGB and the other does something else



'3003', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/16/2019', '14:42:48'
The KGB was the name given to broad intelligence system similar to SIS/MI6 of Britain in terms of intelligence aquisition and volume, but could not compare to it in terms of analysis, a fact which greatly hindered them until the cold war in 1957. Up until then, and in the early days of the cold war, the KGB had largely focused on 'human' intelligence (that is, spies, espeionage, reverse espionage, etc.) from illegal residents in the USSR and abroad. However, as a result of stricter policies abroad, the KGB turned their efforts and focus to technological espionage. The KGB acted as a secret police of sorts, acting as a 'sword and shield' of the parties' beliefs and idiologies. They worked to suppress unorthodox beliefs and eliminate dissidence/dissidents, as well as secure borders, and dissolve dissending groups both within the USSR and outside of its borders. However, when Kruschev came to power in 1961, he did away with the more Stalin-esq policies of his predecessor, and the KGB relaxed, allowing for more self expression and even anti-communist rhetoric, organizations and works to be published during his time as premire. However, when he left office, the next premier returned the state to its status quo of suppression well into 1991. Eventually, after threat of crackdown against the USSR, the KGB was disbanded in the 1990s, and became two separate entities: one with an emphasis on border control, and the other operating in a way similar to the original KGB. 


'3005', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/16/2019', '15:40:18'
On November 6, 1991 the KGB was dissolved following the attempted coup of Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev. Gorbachev appointed a new chairman adn ordered him to disband the Soviet KGB. The KGB is now two separate branches: one dealing with foreign intelligence and the other with internal security. 

The KGB operated from 1957 to 1991. The KGB limited and eradicated free speech. Yuri Andropov, leader of the KGB enforced this strictness until Nikita Khruschev. Khruschev disagreed with Andropov and when he became Premier in the sixties, he loosened control of free speech. This led to the publication of a book, A  Day in the Life of (?) by Aleksandr (?). After Khruschev's fall from power, free speech was once more limited and strict controls were once more enacted. 

The KGB was based on the "sword and shield" idealogy. It was supposed to function much like MI6 or the British SIS. However, the USSR did not hav ethe technological capabilities to match the SIS for the beginning of the Cold War. KGB us


'3006', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/17/2019', '09:44:08'
The KGB was a security system that was used by the Soviet Union. Its purpose was to protect its citizens as well as counter and liquidate any organizations, companies, etc. that went against the Soviet's beliefs. It attempted to match a program that was used in Great Britain, but lacked the necessary artificial intelligence that gave Great Britain an advantage up until the Cold War. Instead, the Soviet Union relied on human intelligence. One of the generals attempted to use the programs of the KGB to overthrow Krushchev, the president of the Soviet Union at one point in its history. After this attempt, the president disbanded the KGB and created two other programs to separate the tasks. However, one of the programs is still similar to the KGB. 



'3007', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/17/2019', '11:43:12'
The KGB was the secret service, police force, and intelligence agency for the Soviet Union during the Cold War era. It was kind of like the Soviet Union's version of the United States' CIA. This organization was modeled after Great Britain's equivalent, but the British version had more advanced intelligence technology than the KGB. The KGB's strongest asset was its human intelligence. During the Cold War, the KGB helped to control dissent. Any form of dissent was considered a threat, and the dissenters would be prosecuted. The KGB was ended in 1991 and then formed into two organizations, both of which are three-letter acronyms. One organization handles internal security, and the other handles intelligence. The one that handles intelligence is more similar to what once was the KGB. After the KGB ceased to exist, someone pub


'3008', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/17/2019', '12:48:53'
Russian's version of CIA played an important role in the mid of 20th century. It has a role of both "shield and sword", with shield indicating protection of national security and sword denoting seeking the information of other countries. It relied highly on human intelligence to search for resources and collect information, unlike the intelligence agent in Great Britain that utilized mainly technology to gather information. However. with the intensified security of the nations after the cold war, Russian has also adopted new ways of gather ing information. The Russian version CIA completed many agendas in the last century. It also helped the Soviet Government to arrest dissident and anti-communist people. The tight control over dissidents relaxed a little bit after Valdimir came to power. Nevertheless, a publication in 


'3009', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/17/2019', '15:43:54'
The KGB Served as the Soviet Unions central agency of proteting their borders, collecting information on other countries and conducting espionage/counter espionage. The KGB behaved in some ways as the Central Intelligence Agency did for teh United States of America. The KGB however was extremely poor at utilizing the information it had collected. Unlike the SIS, or the MI6 for the United Kingdom, that was excellent at data and specifically, signal proessing, the KBG was not as good. Thus, the KGB had to rely on their system of human informants in physical locations around the world to feed them information as they could not do anything the voluminous electronic data that they collected. As the cold war wore on and countires became more adept at keeping out Soviet spies and frustrating the KGB, the KGB had to turn to the business aspect of their agency, selling their data and systems to earn more money. The sudden windfall of cash allowed them obtain technologies that they could use to improve their spying and utilize the data they obtained from electronic methods. Furthermore, the head of the agency was committed to reuducing the number of anti-soviet propoganda and the excceedingly large amount of information against he communists and thereby reduce the liberaties of the Soviet peoples. Nikita Kruschev disagreed with this increasingly stalinist approach to the wokings of the agency and then when he became the premier he began to relax the laws of the KGB. This allowed literature such as the day in the life of inanovich to come to the foreground. During the 1990's after krushev had left office the KGB had become increasingly authoritarian and secretive, an ot 


'3011', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/18/2019', '08:44:55'
There was an umberlla association named HKG that worked for the Soviet Union to collect information and secure the country. But unlike MI6 from Britain, HKG does not have a strong ability other than using the human intelligence network. They were once strict about the control over citizens' thought to eliminate all anti-communists opinions, but such restriction was relaxed after a publication of novel in 1962. After the president lost the power, HKG went back to its strict functioning till 1991 when Soviet Union broke. 


'3012', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/18/2019', '12:39:14'
The KGB in Soviet Russia was analogous to the US' Central Intellegence Agency. The had a motto of "sword and shield," the shield to protect the Soviet Union and the sword to banish its foes. The KGB had a variety of functions, such as counterintellegence, border security, and protection of state treasures. The KGB did not rival the British MI6, who were more technologically advanced because of signal intellegence. The KGB had to stick to human intellegence from forigen spies, but when border security tightened in other countries they had to up their technological advances, which experienced a financial windfall during the cold war. Someone came into power after the cold war and relaxed the KGB's anti-soviet supression efforts, which lead to the publication of some anti KGB critical books. Then someone else came to power and the leader of the KGB (Yuri?) tried to implement a coup. That failed, and gorbachev ordered the dismantelment of the KGB effective immediately. The KGB is now broken up into three different parts, each with different fuctions, although one group still acts similarly to the original KGB.

'3018', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/18/2019', '16:40:47'
KGB is premier Soviet Union's version of British SIS, but it lacks SIS's technology of signaling, so it has to rely on human intelligence, namely people living in other countries. Its mission is to support revolution and gather information regarding espionage and counter-espionage. However, it did not went well at first. Later, KGB tried electronic intelligence via bussiness. Then Gorbachov came and he tried to open up the policy. During this time, literature flourished and a famous novel called One Day of Ivan Den... was published. In the end, KGB's mission of overthrowing Gorbachov failed. KGB w


'3001', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/11/2019', '17:34:45'
KGB was the Russian secret intelligence agency
the agency worked on espionage and secret information on individuals in the societ union
it's goal was to spy on others and catch those who were anti-soviet and to monitor any plans made by anti-soviets
after formation, a new president was appointed of the KGB
the president tried to overthrow the soviet union and as a result, it was dibanded, much to the dismay of the founder
now, the KGB is split into different factions, however, they each do the same thing: espionage and gathering information on others



'3015', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/18/2019', '13:50:01'
The KGB was the premier intelligence and espionage force in the Soviet Union until its dissolution in 1991. It was preceded by the Cheka, and its purpose was to gather foreign intelligance as well as to eradicate any dissent against the Soviet Union from within its borders. It ran by the "sword and shield" motto--the shield as protecting the state, while the sword vanquished any dissenters. This intelligence agency performed the same tasks as the CIA and Britain's SIS (also known as MI6), but it lacked the technological advancements in technology that allowed for the other agencies to flourish and gather more itnelligence. As a consequence, the KGB relied mostly on human intelligence, mostly from illegal civilians that would be sent ot foreign countries. But as these aforementioned countries tightened their security, the KGB was unable to move around their human agents. This spurred the development of advanced technologies that also leaked into the business sector for the state. The KGB would eliminate anyone within the state seen as a threat who did not believe in the ideology of the country or who pushed for change. Once Krushchev became president, the censorship and other laws were relaxed, and some material that was previously disallowed was published, such as A Day in the Life of Ivan. After Krushchev, however, there was a member of the KGB that disapproved of him and staged a coup against him. The KGB was too weak to stage a successful coup, and this general ended up arrested. Once the next leader, Gorbachev, was put in power, the KGB was broken up into the SVR and another group that conducts the same sort of foreign and domestic intelligence. 



'3017', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/18/2019', '16:41:02'
The KGB was the Soviet intelligence agency, like the CIA in the US. They were good at gaining intelligence, but didn't have enough analysis skills to keep up with the SIS (AKA MI6) in the UK, for example, especially in regards to communications technology. As a result, they focused a lot on external espionage and counter espionage. Later in the KGB's life, it became harder to spy because everybody was cracking down on protection measures. So, the KGB started focusing more on technology. Another facet of the KGB was the suppression of anti-revolutionaries/non-communist ideology within the USSR. This his its peak with Yuri, whose era was similar to that of Stalin. After Yuri, though, Nikita Kruschev came to power and loosened the USSR up a little bit. After his time, I think it got harsh again. Finally, Gorbachev came to power and really loosened up the State -- to the point where the KGB started planning to overthrow him. This failed and as a result the head of the KGB was replaced and the KGB was split into 2 distinct organizations. Something happened on November 6 1991



