'3014', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/18/2019', '12:30:43'
Galileo's father was a musician and discovered, through experimentation, the indirect relationship between pitch and string taughtness. Galileo built a telescope that surpassed any other that had been built before it. He studied astronomy at Pisa and later met and married a woman with two daughters (whom he, when he moved, sent them to convent school) and one son. He wrote a book about his geocentric view, and the pope asked- in exchange for funding- his views be put into the book. Galileo created a character named Supercious, who said foolish things. Because of this, the pope tried Galileo for heresey and spent the majority of his remaining  life (9 years) under house arrest. 


'3020', '1', 'C:\Users\Fazio Lab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/18/2019', '15:20:35'
Gallileo was an astromer, physicist, and philospher in the 17th century. There wasn't much about logic in science at the time. Gallileo was really good at math. His father was a musician and shared that with his son. 

Gallileo's true passion was with astronomy. He went to University of Pisa were he studied astronomy and built a telescope. He then went to go on to teach at University of Purdua. He married Mariana Gamba and had 3 illegitimate children with her. He was able to get one Duke of Tuscany to legitimize his daughter Vincenza. Mariana remarried and Gallileo kept cordial relations with them. 

Gallileo was criticized for his astro something theory, which says that the sun orbits the earth. He wrote a book called Discovery something (I don't remember) explaining this. His one friend, heger, supported him and wanted to be a part of the book so he named the character Simplicius but that character was considered foolish. His friend heger was insulted and Gallileo lost a very supportive and resourceful friend. Th


'3013', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/18/2019', '12:14:14'
Galileo G was a astronomist, philosopher, and physicist in the 17th century. He was famous for introducing quantitative research methods to solve problems. Logic was previously the deciding factor. Galileo learned mathematics from his father, a musician famous for using mathematics in his work. Galileo's true passion was astrology and he was famous for discovering the moons circling Jupiter. He was a supporter of heliocentrism and wrote a book defending this theory in 1632. Pope Urban VIII promoted the publication of this book but in exchange for his support he wanted his theory of geocentrism mentioned in the book also. Galileo made the Pope sound like a simpleton in defending his geocentric views, so the Pope accused Galileo of heresy and sentenced him to house arrest for 9 years until Galileo's death. Galileo had 3 illegitimate children - 2 daughters and 1 son. He sent the daughters to a convent and supported his son

'3016', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/18/2019', '15:18:52'
Gallileo had three kids, two were girls and one was a boy. One of the girls names was Virginia. The children were illegiamate, but the boy was baptised because Gallileo couldn't pay the dowry for his daughters to marry someone of from the Medichi court. The mother of Gallileo's children left him and remarried, but he remained courgial with her and her husband. Gallileo was put under house arrest in 1624 due to his creation of "Simplicititous." Simplicitous represented the pope, who allowed Gallileo to publish his ideas as long as the pope's views were also in the book. Simplicitous was represented as a fool. Gallileo died in 1633. Gallileo's father was a musician. Gallileo was fired from the University of Pauda due to funding issues then rehired at another university. This is where he met the woman who would bear him his three kids. Galileo's son was named after his Galileo's father. Both names started with a V but his son's name had an o at the end instead of an i. Galileo's other daughter had a name that started with an L. Galileo created a telescope at the University of Pauda before being fired due to finances. Galileo learned about math through the studies that his father conducted on string instruments. These experiments taught him about different musical notes. 



'3002', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/16/2019', '08:19:02'
under house arrest from 1633 to 1642
angered pope by barely supporting the geocentric belief instead of the heliocentric belief
created the heliocentric belief when he disocovered jupiter's moons
dropped out of school early because of finacial reasons
ended up becoming a professor at a different school
while being a professor he had 3 illiegitmate children with a woman, but he only shows up on one of their records
this woman ended up marrying another guy, but galileo had cordial relationships with both of them
galileo made a telescope that allowed for him to see that jupiter had moons that orbited it
galileo was an important character in the scienific movement
he studies astronomy, mathematics, science, and philosophy
he brought math into a field of science that was previously logic-based/logic-dominated


'3004', '1', 'Z:\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/16/2019', '14:17:54'
Gallelio Gallelli was a scientist from Italy who put forward a heliocentric view of interplanetary systems (that plants revolved around the sun). At an early age, he learned about the non-linear mathematical relationship between the tension of a string and its pitch from his father Vincenzo, a musician. He attended the University of Pisa briefly, became a faculty at another Italian college, and had a personal passion for astrophysics and astronomy. In his personal life, he had three illegitimate children with Marina de Gamba: Vincenzio, Virginia and Lucia. Later, he legitimized his son Vincenzio via the Duke of Tuscany. The author speculated that the reason for this is that Gallellio lacked the funds necessary to provide sufficiently high dowries for his two daughters to marry men acceptable based on his stature with the Medici court.

Gallelio was a longtime friend of The Pope at the time. When he published his book about his heliocentic views, The Pope permitted it because 


'3010', '1', 'Z:\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/17/2019', '15:19:02'
Galelio was a scientist in the 1600s. He grew up learning about math and logic from music and music theory, as his father was a musician. He went to the University of Piza for a while and made the strongest telescope and studied / found Jupiter's moons. He ended up having to drop out of school because of money but then got hired as a professor at the University of Padua. He had a thing with a girl named Maria and had three kids with her. He claimed the son as Christian through the church (I didn't really understand this part I'm Jewish sorry) but did not claim the daughters because he wouldn't be able to afford dowries. He was on the Medici court. Maria then married another guy and seemed happy, and Galelio and Maria stayed friendly. Galelio invented heliocentricism - the idea that the planets revolve around the sun and not the Earth. To get permission to publish a book about this the Pope said that Galelio needed to include the Pope's views (which were anti heliocentricism) in it as well. The book was published in 1632. Galelio made fun of the Pope's views, and called them simple. The Pope got super angry, charged Galelio with heresay in 1633, and put him in house arrest until he died almost a decade later.


'3003', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/16/2019', '14:17:51'
Galileo was an italian philospher who played an instrumental role in the scientific revolution in Italy during the 17th century. He was the son of Vencizo Galilei, who was a musian responsible for experimentally deducing the progression of chords by experimenting on a string. His use of scientific methods was adopted by Galileo, who, in turn, conducted numerous, extremely defined and meticulous scientific experiments, and ran mathematical analysis on the results of. He is, as a result, responsible for quantitative analysis and measurement in the sciences during a time where logic dominated the sciences and scientific method. Though he was a philospher, he was far more entranced by astronomy. He was responsible for not only the building of the first telescope with the capability to see out to Jupiter, but also the discovery of Jupiter's moons, which went directly against the earth centric model of the catholic church. In fact, in his controversial book "A conversation of two models", he blatantly mocks Pope Urban VIII (who had previously been a big supporter of Galileo), who had requested his (and by extension the church's) earth centric model be displayed alongside Galileo's heliocentric model. Upon finding out he had been mocked, Pope Urban proceeded to punish Galileo by putting him on banning his ideas and putting him on house arrest until his death in 1642. Additional facts about Galileo include the fact that he had three illegitimate children: two daughters (who were never claimed by him on their birth 


'3005', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/16/2019', '15:15:12'
Galileo Galilei learned mathematical analysis in regards to music from his father. Pythagorean music theory involves whole numbers related to harmonious scales. Galileo was a professor at the University of Pisa before he had to leave because of a lack of funding. Shortly thereafter he was employed by the University of Padua. Galileo discovered moons around Jupiter which did not fall in line with the notion that all celestial bodies orbit the Earth. Galileo had three illegitimate children, Virginia, Livia, and Vincenzo (named after Galileo's father) with Marina Gamba - a woman he met while working at University of Padua. Galileo remained on good terms with both Marina Gamba and her husband Giovanni Bartoluzzi. Only Vincenzo was ever legitimized, most likely due to dowry issues for the girls. Galileo worked for the Medici family. He supported heliocentrism. In his book, Dialogue of Two World Views (?), he included Pope Urban VIII at his behest as the character Simplicus who supported geocentrism. This made the Pope out to look like a fool and Galileo lost on


'3006', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/17/2019', '09:19:10'
Galileo Galilie was an important figure of the scientific revolution of the seventheenth century. He was one of the first individuals to use a telescope. He incorporated math into the discipline of science, but astronomy was his true passion. He attended a university but had to leave because of financial reasons, but received a position at another university. He had 3 illegitimate children, one of which he legitimized. He believed in the theory of heleocentrism, which is the idea that the planets revolve around the sun. This theory was not supported during his time. The Pope at the time was one of his biggest supporters and allowed Galileo to publish a book on the condition that he incorporate some of the Pope's ideas into his writing. Galileo created the character Simplicus after the Pope, and this character supported heleocentrism and came off sounding foolish. Because of this, Galileo lost the Pope's support and was put under house arrest for the remainder of his life. 

'3007', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/17/2019', '11:18:05'
Galileo Galilei was an astronomer from the 17th century. He was initially interested in math and how it interacted with music. His father was a musician. Galileo went to college, but he could not afford it and was forced to drop out. He then began his astronomy career. He met a young woman and had three illegitimate children with her. He was actually able to get one child legitimized through the church since he would not be able to afford dowries for all of his daughters. 

Galileo went against the widely-held geocentric belief that the planets revolved around Earth. He discovered heliocentrism when he observed moons orbiting around Jupiter or Saturn. He observed these moons with a telescope that he made, which was able to see further than any other telescope at the time. 

One of Galileo's biggest supporters was Pope Urban VIII. Galileo was allowed by the pope to publish his views on heliocentrism, as long as the geocentric view was included as well. Galileo portrayed the geocentric view with a character called Simplicius who was portrayed as a fool. Pope Urban got angry, and Galielo was placed under house arrest in 1633. He remained in house arrest until his death in 1642. 


'3008', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/17/2019', '12:20:30'
Galileo was an Italian astronomer in 15th century Italy. His use of quantitative methods and conduct of experienment revoluntionalized people's use of logic. Galileo's father found out the non-linear relationship between pitch and string. Galileo went to University of Pisa for study but quitted due to financial reasons. But soon afterwards he was hired by another university in Italy. He invented telescope and found out the moons of Jupiter, which disappoint the idea that all celestial objects evolve around the earth. He fell in love with a girl and had three illegitimate children, whose baptism show no name of Galileo as their dad. After Galileo was hired by the Medici court, he legitimized one of his daughter because he could only afford just one to have a marriage with someone that corres. Galileo 

'3009', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/17/2019', '15:19:09'
Galileo was born in the 17th century A.D. during this time logic was the fundemental guiding principal in the fields of mathematics and science. Mathematics was however especially prominent in the field of music. Gallileo's father, Vincenzo was a musiciain who discovered the non-linear connection between the tension and pitch of a string instrument through experimental methods. 
Although galielo had been studying the role of mathematics in science, he was always interested in astronomy. He studied astronomy at the university of pisa but had to drop out for financial reasons. During his time at the university he created a telescope that could see farther than anyone had ever been able to. After he dropped out he immedieatly received a position in Padua. Here he went on to make several more important discoveries including he fact that Jupiter had moons orbiting them, this helped disoprove the model that everything revovled around the earth. All celestial bodies that is.
During his time away from padua he had an affair with a woman marina de andrea gamba and had three illegitamate children, virginia, livia and vincenzio. None of these three children were confrimed to be his but there was always a connection between them. Gallileo managed to get his son legitamized by the Grand Duke of Tuscany and sent his two daughters off to a convent. The reason for this was probably that he could not offer the dowry required to marry the girls off based on his prestige in the court of medici. He went on to support the heliocentric

'3011', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/18/2019', '08:19:33'
The passage introduces the life story of Galileo. He was born in a family in which his father is a musician. Back in that time, logic was the fundamental scientific method, but musicians tend to adopt mathematics for tones and harmonies. His father explored relationship related to pith in experimental ways, which influences Galileo. Galileo displays interest in astronomy since his childhood. He built the fartherst telescope at that time in his university and became one of the first person that uses telescope to watch the sky. But the research was terminated by university due to insufficiency of money.
He married a woman named Mariana and had 2 girls and 1 boy. The 2 girls didn't follow him due to he could not pay the dowerries when they were to marrying. Mariana later married another man, but Galileo maintained the relationship with both of them.
Then Galileo published his work in which describes two ther

'3012', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/18/2019', '12:14:16'
Galileo was one of the first scientists to use mathmatics over logic, which was the prevailing theory of thought at the time. Mathmatics was rare but was used in music theory, where something was in whole number ratios. Galileo's father was a musician and music theorist who did experiments on strings to determine that something with pitch could be in fractional ratios. Galileo learned math from his dad and went on to study at the university of pauda. There he was able to develop the first telescope that saw the entire night sky, but he had to drop out for financial reasons. He later took up a post as a professer at a different university, where he made other strides, like discovering one of jupiter's moons. While he was there he met a woman whom he fathered 3 illegitimate children with. Two of the children were sent off somewhere, while the third was legitimized. This unequal treatment happened because Galileo didn't have enough money for the dowerys to legitimize them all according to his standing in the Medici court. The mother of his children went on to marry someone else, but the three of them were cordial. Galileo went on to advocate for heliocentrism and publish a book on the topic. The pope at the time allowed this despite the view being contrary to the church's, but made Galileo mention the pope's views in the book. Galileo did this by expressing the pope's views through the character simplicus. Simplicus was portrayed as a fool in the book, so Galileo was put on house arrest in 1633 until his death in 1647 for heresay.


'3018', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/18/2019', '16:15:42'
Galileo, a mathematician, astronomist, and philosopher in the 17th century is one of the leading figures in Scientific revolution. Before the revolution, logic is regarded as the most important tool to understand the world, though mathematics is also used as in Pythagerean theorem and music analysis. Galileo is interested in maths and he shared this interest with his father. He is also the first person who used a telescope. Though he was very interested in Astronomy, he was not well-funded. He met Marina and had three children though they were not his on record. Marina later married and Galileo keeps cordial correspondence with both Marina and her husband. Galileo gained support from the Medici and was able to further work on his discovery that the Earth rotates around the sun and



'3001', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/11/2019', '17:04:23'
galileo was study at the university of piza
galileo became part of the faculty at the university of pursa
he was a physicist, mathematician ans philosopher
galileo constructed on of the most updated telescopes at his time
galileo had three illegitimate children from a women he met abroad
galileo believed in geocentrism
others, such as the pope believed in centrisim
galileo was under house arrestt for the remainder of his life after he released a contradicting book
galileo legitimized his child Vilencizo, who shared the same name as his father
galileo kept good relations with one of his daughters and her husband
galileo changed the idea that logic should be used to prove science
galileo used math to quantisize and experiment on idea
galileo's father used math as a way to represent music notes
galileo proved that jupiter had three moons orbiting it, shattering the centrist idea
galileo loved physics
galileo called the pope "simplius" in his book
galile



'3015', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/18/2019', '13:24:20'
Galileo was a prominent astronomist and mathematician in the seventeenth century. He lived in Italy and became fascinated with mathematics as a result of his father's occupation of being a music theorist, for he explored the srosses between music and mathematics. However, Galileo became more interested in astronomy, and when he enrolled in the Univesity of Pisa he build a telescope that was the first one to function. He transferred to the University of Padua for financial reasons, where he met a woman and had three illegitimate children with her, including Virginia and Vincenzia. He could not rpovide the dowry for Vicenzia, and the woman he loved ended up marrying another man. Galileo was moved to the Court of Medici soon thereafter. Galileo was a supported of the heliocentric theory, because he was able to see the moons of Jupiter and believed that the world did not revolve around the earth; rather, around the sun. Originally one of his biggest supporters was Pope Urban VIII, and Galileo published a book with his permission about the findings. The Pope wanted a character that held his beliefs included in the publication, so Galileo named this character Superlius. This character was generally received as a fool, which angered the Pope, who put Galileo under house arrest for his heretic beliefs in 1633. In 1642, he died still under house arrest.  

'3017', '1', 'C:\Users\FazioLab\Desktop\Free Recall-Retrieval Practice\Phase 1.exp', 'default.mlp', '9/18/2019', '16:15:47'
Galileo lived in the 17th century, and helped revolutionize science. For a long time before him, logic was the insrument of science, and math was for music. (Something about Pythagoras and whole tones...) His dad was a musician, and so was he, so he began to fuse them together and did experiments that let him do calculations to figure new things out. He did many things, including finding Jupiter's moon with a telescope. He went to university but left because of financial reasons, and then was hired into another university. There, he met a girl and had 3 kids, 2 girls and a boy. He legitimized the boy but sent the girls to a nunnery. The mom remarried but Galileo stayed on good terms with them. Eventually, Galileo came out as a strong supporter of heliocentrism, AKA the belief that the planets revolve around the sun. Pope Urban VIII (?) approved of him publishing a book discussing this (called something like Discourse on the Two Views of the), on the condition that his view (that everything revolves around the Earth) be included. Galileo did include that view, but as the view of a character names Simplicus who was dumb. That made the Pope mad and Galileo was accused of heresy, and was placed under house arrest until he died in 16-something. 
